Part of what we're going to talk about here is how astrology informs the therapy process
and what that actually looks like. I think one of your observations is that there are some
people that are primarily psychotherapists that do incorporate astrology to some extent in their
work. While that's not a huge portion of the field necessarily, it's interesting that that
exists and it's something that's not necessarily widely recognized. It would be interesting to
look into how that works and what that's about. Yes. I would love to share with you a few quotes
from Carl Jung about his process of using astrology in psychotherapy. I think this is
the other thing. We're like, oh yeah, Carl Jung, he valued astrology, but did he actually use it?
Did he use the chart in his process? Did he talk to his clients about it? Those are the
kinds of things I want to know. What did he actually do? We don't have a lot on that,
unfortunately, but there's a couple of things. Let's see. Two different core quotes that I'll
share. Carl Jung wrote in a letter in 1911 to Freud. This is very early on in his studies.
This may be a popular one that folks have heard. He says,
my evenings are taken up very largely with astrology. I make horoscopic calculations in
order to find the clue to the core of psychological truth. That to me says that he's pulling a chart
and he's looking at it to assess his understanding of the client case.
I love that quote because he's writing that to Freud and I always just imagine Freud rolling his
eyes and being like, okay. That's one of the core quotes and that's from super early in Jung's
career. I think this is also quite popular, but it bears repeating. Carl Jung wrote in a letter to
an astrologer, B. V. Raman. This is in 1947. This is fairly late in his career.
He said, since you want to know my opinion about astrology, I can tell you I've been interested in
this particular activity of the human mind for more than 30 years. In cases of difficult
psychological diagnosis, I usually get a horoscope in order to have a further point of view from an
entirely different angle. I must say that very often I found that the astrological data
elucidated certain points which I otherwise would have been unable to understand. From such
experiences, I form the opinion that astrology is of particular interest to the psychologist.
Yeah, for sure. Then he's also writing the papers on synchronicity and he's doing his
astrology test during those or at least during one of those. It keeps coming up at different
points in his life. I've done other episodes going in more detail about Jung's background in
astrology, but I think the conclusion with those was that there was no – I don't want to say no
question, but it seemed like it was easy to classify him as an astrologer, although obviously
he was primarily a psychotherapist. Yeah, I think from what I can tell,
it's definitely something that he used to inform his understanding, but maybe not necessarily with
clients.